# Introduction

Software development is a craft, combining elements of both theory and
practice. This book aims to cover both.

Writing a technical book that seeks to address developers of every
programming language equally is not easy, resulting in overly abstract
discussion and adoption strategies are left for the reader to puzzle
out. Instead, this book is intended for Clojure developers.

That is not to say that Clojure is the best and certainly not the only
language available for writing modular applications. Clojure is a young
language, and still rapidly evolving. That said, the treatment of shared
mutable state in Clojure makes it favorable to the construction of
software applications from interchangeable components, for example, the
lack of opportunity for two separate components to affect each other via
a shared address space improves the chances of component re-use.

In our treatment of computer programs as graphs we are particular
concerned with the avoidance of _side-effects_.

Side-effects, in computer systems, are unexpected behaviours that are
caused by the breakdown of the abstraction we are using to instruct the
computer. They punch 'holes' through logical fa√ßades we erect to protect us from considering the low-level implementation details of a computer.

Side-effects imply the existence of 'hidden' edges in our graph, ones
that have no respect for the boundaries we draw between our clusters and
can thwart our attempts to reduce coupling.

Clojure represents a significant breakthrough in the design of computer
languages in that it provides _functional data structures_, offering
programmers greater scope to avoid side-effects in their
functions. While most functional programming languages encourage the
development of 'pure' functions operating on values, Clojure
significantly deepens the choice of data structure that can be passed to
and from functions as values. In Clojure, rich data structures including
collections, sets and maps (association sets) behave as if they were
values - operations on them in no way affect the original value.

While Clojure is not unique in offering 'functional data structures',
ensuring their ubiquity by the exclusion of alternative 'mutable'
choices is a key constraint not found in most other functional
languages, with the exception of Haskell (or one from its family of
descendants). Yet Haskell is chiefly concerned with the orthogonal
theory of types. For the purposes of this discussion on modularity,
therefore, we prefer to focus on the connectedness of edges rather than
their correctness.
